# Master's Thesis
Systemic risk is the possibility of concurrent and widespread financial institutions failures, responsible for undermining the financial system stability and for leading to significant adverse impacts on the real economy. Among the factors contributing to systemic risk the high level of interdependence between market participants is the most important, since it can amplify shocks in the cross-sectional dimension. A high dense network of interconnected institutions provides an ideal environment for the proliferation of financial contagion. This project aims at modelling financial contagion between the main European banks on one side, and between the European countries on the other, through a Bayesian approach. Financial contagion is proxied by the change in Credit Default Swap spreads over time, while the underlying model is a Bayesian Vector Autoregressive. For the coefficients, to handle the model typical over-parameterization issue, a Minnesota prior distribution is considered, while an Inverse-Wishart distribution incorporates prior beliefs about the second moment of the residual term. Once the conditional posterior distributions for both parameters are derived, a Gibbs sampler algorithm is implemented to simulate realizations. Finally, the Signal Adaptive Variable Selector method is applied on post estimates to sparsify the coefficient matrices. The results are used to extract the networks describing how financial interconnectedness evolved over the period considered, from 2016 to mid 2023.

